CodaLab
=======

CodaLab is a web application that allows researchers to develop, share, and compare algorithms leveraging cloud resources. CodaLab provides the ability to share both code and data, develop computational experiments, and create and participate in challenges. 

CodaLab is organized around Experiments and Competitions. Experiments provide both reproducibility but also building blocks for future experiments. Competitions provide a structured workflow within CodaLab that allows CodaLab users to provide rewards for users that can improve algorithms. 

Each CodaLab experiments is a set of algorithms and data that is organized into a workflow by using a worksheet. The experiment is organized as a directed acyclic graph of basic experiments. A basic experiment is a single step in the experimental workflow (e.g. split data into two sets, compute mean value of data, classify data into categories). Each basic experiment has input data, an algorithm and the results it produces. The results of one basic experiment can be input data to another basic experiment. By chaining these basic experiments together it is possible to create complex experimental workflows.

By recording the experimental workflow, the data, and specific versions of algorithms an experimental worksheet provides a simple way to re-execute the same code and data which has to produce the same results. By describing an entire worksheet as a single algorithm that takes data as the input and produces output it's possible to reuse worksheets as basic experiments which are described below. Once a worksheet has been constructed and tested it can be converted into a reusable macro that can then be used to process different data.

CodaLab competitions are created to allow organizers to provide rewards for improving algorithms developed and hosted in CodaLab. Competitions provide a framework for organizers to present data, terms and coditions, and a process for scoring, ranking and rewarding participants who submit entries to the competition. Currently competitions require offline execution of algorithms and the resulting data is uploaded to CodaLab for scoring, however it is a near-term goal to provide the ability to upload algorithms that can be executed by CodaLab to produce the results which can then be scored. This has several advantages: 1) participants never obtain access to the actual competition data, 2) participants can't massage results before submission, 3) organizers can see the performance of the algorithm provided (not just results), and 4) organizers can re-execute the algorithms on the same or different data. Eventually, experimental worksheets will be submittable to competitions providing a seamless integration between the collaborative experimentation platform and competition capabilities of CodaLab.

Within CodaLab the basic unit of self-describing storage is referred to as a bundle. There are currently data bundles, algorithm bundles, run bundles, and competition bundles.